Flowers of Faith: Verses in Praise of the Venerable Guardian Maitreya Namo bhaṭṭāraka maitrīnāthāya! In ancient times, under the conqueror Pure Golden Light, You adopted the incredible twofold mind of awakening. Applying skillful means, you became adept in ascending to the kingdom of omniscience Solely on the blissful path, O Invincible One. During the teaching era of the tathāgata Jewel Parasol, You became known as the peerless Fresh Moonbeams, Clearing beings' agony with the nectar of love, Renowned throughout the three planes, O Invincible One. Later, as a playful Brahmin youth, You came of age in your bodhisattva conduct And then brought fulfillment to the world with benefit and happiness. You remind me of a marvelous sun, O Invincible One. With your incredible powers of wisdom and compassion, You easily overcame Kāmadeva. You tasted the nectar of liberation yourself. Your life story is peerless, O Invincible One. I invoke your words of truth that state You will give encouragement to those, Who during the current era of the Kinsman of the Sun, Perform even the smallest deeds, O Invincible One. Is your precious, refined form a display Of the demeanor of the hundred major and minor marks? Please reveal directly before my eyes your wisdom body That puts an end to doubt, O Invincible One! Joining your melodious lute-like voice of sixty qualities To the scriptural traditions of the supreme vehicle, profound and vast, You awaken us from the sleep of the two extremes- Please bring your nectar to my ears, O Invincible One! Though you have subdued the constructs of this and that, You persist in extending your billionfold vision Of wisdom and love to every sentient being- Please bless my mind-stream, O Invincible One! With this cry of one pointed, heartfelt faith, As I honor you, the victors' heir, with praise Of your life story and the aspiration to emulate you, Please guard me until awakening, O Invincible One! May I and all beings who rely on me approach single-heartedly The path that leads out of existence and peace. Please clear away all our other Ideas and concepts, O Invincible One! Please captain the ship bejeweled with pure discipline- Hearing, reflection, concentration, retention, and confidence- As I cross the sea of disturbing emotions, Cognitions, and absorptions, O Invincible One! When with time the experience of this life disappears, In the delightful locus of Dharma in Tuṣita, May the noble one hold me in his delighted arms And grant me prophecy and encouragement, O Invincible One! In sum, may I reach supreme awakening like you, And may you bring me the good fortune of activity That sets the entire ocean of beings as far as space pervades On the good path of benefit and happiness, O Invincible One! This supplication was made by me, the one named Khyentse-a carefree vagabond who roams the land-when I was twenty-one, in the presence of the great image at Rong Ganden Jampa Ling, which itself came about from the activity of the great bodhisattva Zhönu Gyalchok. I then repeated it afterward many times. May this supplication be accomplished. 
